Cantor, with his work on infinite sets, made precise the idea that the irrational numbers far outnumber the rational numbers.
Cantor initially published his discovery that the real numbers are uncountable in 1874, but in 1891 he offered another proof using decimal numbers that is startling in its simplicity.
In this proof, we would first need to show that the open interval (0,1) is uncountable, and then show that the real numbers are uncountable iff (0,1) is uncountable.
Having established that the rational numbers were countable, and that the real numbers were uncountable, Cantor considered whether there were infinities "above" that of the real numbers.
Cantor's theorem establishes a hierarchy of infinite sets that continues well beyond the continuum of the real numbers.
Cardinality of a set is an equivalence relation. The natural numbers, the integers and the rational numbers all appear in the same equivalence class.
Cantor's theorem states that for each set A, card A < card P(A).
This leads to the implication that there can be no "largest" set.
Cantor's "continuum hypothesis" proposes that the cardinality of the real numbers is the immediate successor of the cardinality of the rationals, i.e. there is no set with a cardinality in between them.
The power set of the natural numbers has cardinality equal to the real numbers.
Kurt Godel showed that using the agreed upon axioms of set theory, there was no way to disprove the continuum hypothesis. Paul Cohen later showed that there was no way to prove it either.
This means that the continuum hypothesis can be accepted or rejected and no logical contradictions will arise.